---
author: Kai Pastor
date: 2019-10-22 07:50:00+02:00
layout: post
title: Mapper 0.9.0 released
categories:
- Mapper
- Releases
---

We are proud to announce the release of OpenOrienteering Mapper 0.9.0. This official release includes a lot of work which was made available for testing via unstable "dev" pre-releases. Key changes since 0.8.4 are:

- ISOM 2017-2 symbol set.
- File formats:
  - Significantly improved OCD format support, including export up to version 12, georeferencing and symbol icons.
  - GeoTIFF template support.
  - Geospatial vector data export.
- Tool improvements:
  - The Edit-objects tool respects *corners*.
  - The Scale-objects tool optionally resizes multiple objects *in their original location*.
- Android:
  - Adjustable tool button size.
  - 64-bit support.
  - standy/background operation improvements.
- "Touch mode" available for PCs:
  - Keyboard-less fullscreen editing like on Android.
  - GPS support also for Windows/macOS/Linux.
    Note that access to the Windows location requires .NET Framework 4 and Powershell 2 (included in Windows 10).
- Significant modernization of 3rd-party components (Qt 5.12, PROJ 6, GDAL 3).
  Note that this also means that some older versions of operating system are no longer supported by mapper.

Less visible but nevertheless important is the introduction of a continuous integration process with test automation for macOS, Linux and Windows on the Azure Pipelines services from Microsoft. Together with the Open Build Service for Linux, all release packages are created in an automated way now. This greatly improves our ability to do frequent releases with confidence in quality.

This release contains 845 commits with 517 changed files. As usual, many thanks go to the 14 contributors, but also to all those who helped finding issues with the 'dev' pre-releases. There is work-in-progress on ISSprOM 2019, but it is not included yet.

{% include download tag="v0.9.0" %}
