---
author: Kai Pastor
date: 2020-10-05 08:15:00+02:00
layout: post
title: Mapper 0.9.4 released
categories:
- Mapper
- Releases
---

We are proud to announce the release of OpenOrienteering Mapper 0.9.4. This official release includes bug fixes and new features. Key changes since v0.9.3 are:

## Enhancements

- The Paint-on-Template feature (aka Scribbling) learned to fill areas (solid or pattern, GH-1242) and to draw in background.
- When GNSS tracking is enabled, the viewport can follow the location (aka Tourist mode, GH-987).
- Templates are loaded after map loading initial map loading, with feedback (but still in foreground, i.e. blocking).
- Basic support for Geospatial PDF templates (via Poppler and GDAL).
- Upscaled icons, and increased menu item size, for better usability on Android.
- Minor OCD support improvements, e.g. export of template visibility (GH-1236).
- The Find-object tool may be used to visit one match after the other (GH-1512).
- The object query language was extended with NOT and SYMBOL (GH-1631), adding even more power to CRT files.
- Translations were updated again.
- Third-party components were updated again (Qt 5.12.9, PROJ 7.1.1, GDAL 3.1.3, graphics formats, cf. Superbuild).

## Fixed bugs

- Placement of OCD templates in OCD maps (GH-1302).
- OCD import of hatch/structure orientation (GH-1677).
- Template alignment and list widget quirks.
- Georeferencing quirks.
- DPI selection for image export (GH-1271).
- Default location source on Android (GH-1629).

This release contains 344 commits with 232 changed files since v0.9.3. Many thanks go to 16 contributors. 

## Deprecations

This is the last release which will include the legacy file format "OCAD version 8, old implementation". Don't worry, *the file format continues to be supported by actively maintained code.* Only the unmaintainted "old implementation" is to be removed.

{% include download tag="v0.9.4" %}
