---
author: Kai Pastor
date: 2021-03-12 07:00:00+01:00
layout: post
title: Mapper 0.9.5 released
categories:
- Mapper
- Releases
---

We are proud to announce the release of OpenOrienteering Mapper 0.9.5. This official release includes bug fixes and new features. Key changes since v0.9.4 are:

## Enhancements

- Mapper finally learned to export KMZ files (GH-138). These files can also be used as templates.
- For organisers of [MapRun](http://maprunners.weebly.com/) or [Vikazimut](http://vikazimut.vikazim.fr/) events, the KMZ export is complemented by a "Simple Course" export feature, turning a single line object (course) into a KML or IOF Data Standard 3.0 course file.
- Geospatial vector data export formats can be selected explicitly, instead of relying on the filename extension (GH-1779).
- For the Paint-on-Template feature (aka Scribbling), it is now possible to select and modify alternative colour palettes (GH-945).
- In touch mode, the editor can ignore touch input from palm and fingers when there is an alternative pointing device (inductive stylus, mouse) (GH-1368).
- Template data saving (GPX, paint-on-template) is more robust now (GH-1785), and error reporting is improved (GH-1790).
- The OMAP file format preserves the order of object tags, facilitating `git` version control (GH-1290).
- Minor OCD support improvements (GH-1786).
- Translations were updated again.
- The User Manual was restructured in order to improve the usability of the [online version](https://www.openorienteering.org/mapper-manual/).
- qtbase, Qt's key component for cross-platform support, was updated to 5.12.10 plus selected extra patches.

## Fixed bugs

- Coordinate system issues with GeoTIFF (GH-1755).
- Missing "datumgrid" files for precise georeferencing (GH-1802).
- Minor OCD format improvements, including a fix for a crash (GH-1796).
- Template saving now working for all file formats (GH-1791).
- Consistent GPX track positioning (regression, GH-1709).
- Area symbol patterns rotated properly when rotating the map (GH-1812), but not for North lines pattern (GH-1870).
- Crash on early activation of GNSS location display (GH-1893).
- ISSprOM 2019 Passable rock face symbol line width (GH-1875).
- Symbol editing and Copy-and-paste quirks (GH-1837, GH-1828).
- Editing values in template position dock widget (GH-1769).
- Warnings without details at ocd import (GH-1766).

This release contains 256 commits with 253 changed files since v0.9.4. This time, many thanks go to **33 contributors**. 
[All changes since v0.9.4](https://github.com/OpenOrienteering/mapper/compare/v0.9.4...v0.9.5)

## Removed features

The unmaintained legacy file format "OCAD version 8, old implementation" was removed. Don't worry, *the file format continues to be supported by actively maintained, modern code.*



{% include download tag="v0.9.5" %}
